=head1 NAME

CharClass - A Perl Regular Expression Character Class Library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Char::Class::XML qw/InXML_NameStartChar10 InXMLNameChar10/;
  
  if ($name !~ /\A<strong>\p{InXML_NameStartChar10}</strong><strong>\p{InXMLNameChar10}</strong>*\z/) {
    die "$0: $name: This is not an XML 1.0 Name";
  }

=head1 MODULES

Modules defining character classes:

=over 4

=item L<Char::Class::Alphabet>

Character classes for alphabetical letters.

=item L<Char::Class::Han>

Han character (CJK ideograph) classes.

=item L<Char::Class::Hiragana>

Hiragana classes.

=item L<Char::Class::IDNBlacklist>

Characters in IDN blacklist, as maintainted by the Mozilla project for
display of IDNs in their product.

=item L<Char::Class::JaInput>

Character classes defined in JIS input method standards.

=item L<Char::Class::ISOIECTR10176>

ISO/IEC TR 10176 character repertoires.

=item L<Char::Class::JISX0221>

JIS X 0221 character collections.

=item L<Char::Class::JISX4051>

JIS X 4051 character classes.

=item L<Char::Class::JISX4052>

JIS X 4052 character classes.

=item L<Char::Class::Katakana>

Katakana classes.

=item L<Char::Class::Kana>

Kana (hiragana, katakana, and additions) classes.

=item L<Char::Class::RFC1815>

RFC 1815 character sets.

=item L<Char::Class::UCS>

UCS (ISO/IEC 10646) character collections.

=item L<Char::Class::XML>

XML-related character classes such as C<InXML_NameStartChar10> (XML
1.0 name start characters) and C<InXMLNameChar> (XML 1.1 name
characters).

=back

A module for normalization:

=over 4

=item L<Char::Normalize::FullwidthHalfwidth>

Normalization of ideographic space, fullwidth alphanumeric characters,
and halfwidth Kakatana.

=back

Modules for Unicode character properties:

=over 4

=item L<Char::Prop::Unicode::Age>

Unicode "Age" property.

=item L<Char::Prop::Unicode::BidiClass>

Unicode "BidiClass" property.

=item L<Char::Prop::Unicode::5_1_0::BidiClass>

Unicode 5.1.0 "BidiClass" property.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCY

All Perl modules in this repository are written in pure Perl.

They require Perl 5.8 or later.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 HISTORY

This Git repository was transferred to the manakai project on 31 July
2022, until then it was located at
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-charclass>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2003-2022 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library and the library generated by it is free software; you can
redistribute them and/or modify them under the same terms as Perl
itself.

=cut
