=head1 NAME

Char::Normalize::FullwidthHalfwidth - Fullwidth/halfwidth character
normalization

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Char::Normalize::FullwidthHalfwidth qw/normalize_width/;
  
  $s = <>;
  normalize_width (\$s);
  print $s;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Char::Normalize::FullwidthHalfwidth> module provides a function
that normalizes fullwidth/halfwidth compatibility characters into
their canonical representations.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

This module provides functions C<normalize_width> and
C<combine_voiced_sound_marks>.  They can be imported to a package by
specifying their names as arguments to the C<use> statement:

  use Char::Normalize::FullwidthHalfwidth qw/normalize_width/;

Note that the C<use> statement does not export anything unless the
function names were explicitly specified.

Alternatively, you can invoke the functions in their fully-qualified
forms:

  require Char::Normalize::FullwidthHalfwidth;
  Char::Normalize::FullwidthHalfwidth::normalize_width (\$scalarref);

=over 4

=item C<normalize_width (I<$scalarref>)>

Normalize the fullwidth/halfwidth characters in the scalar referenced
by the argument into their preferable form.  The argument must be a
scalar reference.  The scalar is treated as a character string
(possibly with the utf8 flag set), not a byte string.  The function
returns the scalar reference.

The function performs the following conversions:

=over 4

=item A character C<U+3000> C<IDEOGRAPHIC SPACE> (so-called fullwidth space)

Replaced by a C<U+0020> C<SPACE> (so-called halfwidth space)
character.

=item Characters in the range C<U+FF01>..C<U+FF5E> (so-called fullwidth ASCII characters)

Replaced by a character in the range C<U+0021>..C<U+007E> (so-called
halfwidth ASCII characters).

=item Characters in the range C<U+FF61>..C<U+FF9F> (halfwidth Katakana)

Replaced by a corresponding so-called fullwidth Katakana (or
ideographic punctuation).  Note that C<U+FF9E> C<HALFWIDTH KATAKANA
VOICED SOUND MARK> and C<U+FF9F> C<HALFWIDTH KATAKANA SEMI-VOICED
SOUND MARK> are replaced by C<U+3099> C<COMBINING KATAKANA-HIRAGANA
VOICED SOUND MARK> and C<U+309A> C<COMBINING KATAKANA-HIRAGANA
SEMI-VOICED SOUND MARK> respectively, not their spacing variants.

=item Characters in the range C<U+FFE0>..C<U+FFE6> (fullwidth symbols)

Replaced by a corresponding canonical character.

=back

=item combine_voiced_sound_marks (I<$scalarref>)

Replace any sequence of (fullwidth) hiragana or katakana followed by a
C<U+3099> C<COMBINING KATAKANA-HIRAGANA VOICED SOUND MARK> or
C<U+309A> C<COMBINING KATAKANA-HIRAGANA SEMI-VOICED SOUND MARK> by its
precomposed form, if possible.

In many cases you would like to apply this function just after the
C<normalize_width> function.

=item $t = get_fwhw_normalized $s

Return a normalized B<copy> of the argument string (not reference).

It performes normalization performed by C<normalize_width> and
C<combine_voiced_sound_marks>, as well as some additional convertions.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Not all compatibility characters in the fullwidth and halfwidth block
of the Unicode Standard are currently supported - especially,
halfwidth Hangul syllables are not converted to their fullwidth
equivalents.  A future version of this module is expected to address
this issue by extending the conversion table.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 HISTORY

This module was originally developed as part of SuikaWiki
L<https://suika.suikawiki.org/~wakaba/wiki/sw/n/SuikaWiki>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2008-2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
